what's scary about having a really good
support system how does it help to watch
somebody go through the transformation
you want to go through before you go
through it how do you know you're ready
to teach something in your support
system what makes you think you could
ever be ready to teach
[Music]
anything all right welcome back to the
art of accomplishment everybody I here
with Joe Hudson I'm Brett kler and today
we're going to talk about how to build a
great support system in the world of
extreme sports people live and die by
who they keep around them by who they
choose to have as their support system y
the way you said that is awesome because
I was like live and die it was like oh
no he's actually talking about living
and dying yeah I mean literally yeah
yeah the people who are with you when
you're about to do something extremely
dangerous yeah are the ones that you're
looking to for assessing the safety of
what you're about to do for assessing
risks they're the ones whose you know
fears or ego drives are going to be ping
ponging off of yours and interacting
with with your psychology yeah and this
is true for extreme sports but I've also
seen this in in business and in
relationships a marriage having a
support system is a very different
experience than a marriage having no no
support system or in isolation that's
right yeah so tell me what like what was
your experience in extreme sports about
creating a support system how did that
go for you how did it start how did it
end yeah the way it started was just who
was near by for example I started base
jumping in Northeast Ohio yeah and so
there were maybe six to 10 base jumpers
in maybe a 6our drive from me at that
time so the support system was who was
around
and luckily there were there were people
with a reasonable amount of experience
to learn from but there were also some
other uh I'd say peers who just started
jumping when I started jumping and so by
default it was sort of the deao support
system the culture around it at that
time was you know you you find somebody
who's a bass jumper you make friends
with them and maybe you bring them a
case of beer and in exchange for them to
bring you to an object where they're
going to jump and then you do the get
way driving and then you learn a little
bit that way right and then over time
they might show you how they're packing
their parachute and you learn a little
bit about packing a Basse jumping
parachute yeah and eventually I found an
instructor who I flew out to Idaho and
paid and got a formal instruction which
at that time it was the first time there
was any kind of real formal instruction
it was still a very much apprenticeship
based uh Journey yeah but over time you
know it became about who who are my
friends that I enjoy hanging around with
jumping with yeah and then over time
that started to transform into not just
who do I enjoy being around but who do I
feel like I am at my best as a jumper
and who am I around who brings out the
best decision making in me who can I
have in my group who's most likely to
say the thing that breaks the group
think and who's most likely to challenge
me and challenge me in a way that I can
receive yeah yeah and who can I
challenge and will receive it so that we
can have the shared learning and not me
have to shut my mouth to be accepted in
a group when there's something that I
see that's dangerous so everything you
just said is is exactly the things that
you're looking for when you're thinking
about creating your own support system
and whatever you're doing whether it's a
support system in marriages whether it's
a support system in a business whether
it's support system in leadership
whether it's a support system in art
it's amazing how you just track each of
the each of the points that are
incredibly important and one of the
things that's there that is hidden for a
lot of people is what you said happens
naturally in sports which is you're
accountable to each other so imagine a
sports team that everybody felt
accountable for their performance to the
team or everybody felt accountable to
the performance to the coach you know
the one that feels accountable to the
team is going to do a lot
better and yet in business for instance
often times what is supposed to be our
support system is just other employees
and we all feel accountable to the coach
right we're just feel accountable to the
boss yeah often times so it's this
amazing thing when the group dynamic is
deeply empowered and that support system
feels deeply empowered everybody's
responsible for themselves and yet you
know that you're there for each other
the way it is in a sports team that's
when you have like an amazing support
network and when it becomes that it's
about one person then the
support system goes away completely it
becomes more of a hierarchy or it's more
of a accountability process but the
support feeling of it really goes away
and so if you look at the great support
networks whether they are like YPO which
is Young Presidents organization
or like the great art communities that
spawned Goan and uh van go you look at
those Comm unities it is a community of
people being accountable to themselves
but being supportive of one another and
it's such a critical piece to creating a
great support
system yeah yeah and something that's
interesting about that is that everybody
listening probably has some form of
support system in existence right now
right and you can have implicitly the
support system that's there for you or
you can explicitly with intention curate
and build and create
navigate a support system yeah that's
and and so I'm curious to talk about how
can somebody assess the support systems
that are available in their world right
now yeah the most important thing that
I'm aware of is being conscious of the
purpose mhm of the support system so is
this support system all designed to help
us have great careers or is this support
system designed to help us all become
great parents so in my world when ter
and I wasn't quite quite when we got
first married but soon as we started
having kids we joined a coup's gathering
that coup's Gathering has been going on
for 18 and a half 19 years now and we
made every quarter or something but all
of our intention is like how do
we talk about being couples and talk
about being parents in a way that
supports each other being couples and
parents needing that that purpose that
sense of purpose is the first thing to
be conscious about it right now most
people have their support network but
they don't have a shared sense of
purpose so for instance we're creating
this thing called the council which is
all about leaders wanting to be great
leaders but not just I want to be a
great leader it's I want to be a leader
in a way that helps me transform helps
me on my journey of self-development I
want to be a leader in a way that
empowers other people I want to be a
leader that helps people be more human
not less Human by telling them to put
half of their self in the door and knock
bring it into work I want to be a leader
that people feel like they're becoming
better people because they're in a team
that I'm
leading that's the purpose of that group
if you I don't care if Elon Musk wanted
to join that group unless he had that
purpose he shouldn't be in the group The
Second Stage is really not just defining
the purpose but making sure that is the
filter for anybody who comes into the
group yeah which is an interesting
question to look at where where are
their support systems in your life what
is the implied purpose yeah you know in
in jumping there were there were groups
that I was with and the the implied
purpose of the group was to explore to
the farthest edges of the world and do
the weirdest things there were other
groups where the implied purpose was to
get well known and be seen as the the
most skilled and maybe get famous and
there are others who the implied purpose
was how can we be there for each other
right and how can we use this this sport
as a vehicle for getting into deeper
relationship with one another and
ourselves and the world and and
cultivate
love yeah that's exactly that's so
beautifully expressed
because that brought into Consciousness
can change everything about your life
but right now I like if I think about
the support systems I'm in I have one
for being a couple being a parent and I
have one for for this kind of business
where there's 21 of us who come together
they're all content creators of some
sort do courses of some sort where we're
vulnerable about our businesses in that
one everybody wants to be of service to
humanity nobody is involved in that that
isn't wanting to make people's lives
better a support system that's all about
Community a practice which is something
that we do in our business all the time
and and what's amazing is a whole bunch
of things that you don't think would be
true about them are true about them
meaning they work better if people at
different stages of development mhm
somebody who's earlier in the journey
someone who's later in the journey we
learn better when that's the case than
if it's all super experts I've tried to
create communities of practice full of a
whole bunch of people who are Awakening
teachers it was a [__] show so it just
it seems to work better when there's
this diversity diversity and mindset
like when we're creating a community of
practice even in a single course like
the inperson groundbreakers that we do
it's do we have uh masculine energy
feminine energy do we have emotional
processors intellectual processors do we
have people who understand their
energetic systems do we have people who
are more auditory more visual
Diversified backgrounds we're looking
for the that kind of diversification
because you see things differently you
learn different things from each other
you have different perspectives on the
journey and that's actually what's
useful as long as everybody treats each
other like peers right it can't be I'm
better than you and there's like one
person who's leading that support system
there might be some leadership don't get
me wrong or the leadership is best if it
changes hands oh that oh I'm taking this
on and they lead for a while I'm taking
this on and they lead for a while but
it's it that hierarchy being gone very
effective so some that's really
interesting here is we're we've talked
about having like a unified purpose yeah
but also having maximum diversity yes
and that's fascinating to me cuz when I
started skydiving my very first coach
gave me a really good advice he was like
if you want to get really good at
jumping find the best skydivers that you
can and jump with them all the time
that's that's it yeah but also that
might not get me really good at dealing
with the grief of a friend's death right
and there there might be a lot of
overlap there right but so if I if I'm
looking at where I want to go in life
yeah I can I can build a support system
around a particular purpose but where I
want to go in life is ultimately in the
direction of some form of rounded human
individual rounded life right right and
so I want to build a support system that
has people who
represent and and can reflect and mirror
different aspects of myself that I want
to develop and challenge me in those
different ways yeah so what's really
interesting in about that is let's say
you were completely dedicated to BEC the
best sky diver and so that was the
support system was just great skydivers
and you had nobody in there who knew how
to grieve nobody who' handled death well
and occasionally in your sport people
died I mean I remember when I met you
and you were mourning like this long
list of people who had died well if
you're not mourning the death of those
people you it's going to be really hard
to become the best you're going to have
all sorts of psychological blocks when
you get up on that thing there's all
sorts of fears unknown and known that
are [__] with your psyche when you're
about to take your jump so it's really
interesting you have the purpose but
then within that you really want that
diversification because that
diversification of perspective is what's
going to
catch all the things that you don't see
yeah and the other thing that you said
which I think is just so critical is
that challenge can you challenge and be
challenged in a way that you take it not
personally in that support group
and and and is there explicit
understanding of when challenge is
welcome and when it is not so for
instance I was in a men's group for 15E
support
group and we just didn't give advice
unless asked for if asked for boom you
would get it otherwise you did not get
it you know I assume it was somewhat
explicit also when you're jumping off of
a tower it's like yeah it's explicit if
you some don't feel safe you say it at
least in the group you were involved in
you don't say something to somebody
right as they're about to jump like oh
be careful sometimes you do that just to
[__] with them watch out for your
[Laughter]
Bridal sometimes an appropriate amount
of needling is actually a really good uh
aspect of a support group anybody who's
been taught by me knows that I agree
with
that yeah so it so that kind of expli
how are we giving feedback and that
agreement whether it's implicit or
explicit but that it's known I think is
really important for any kind of support
group yeah and I can imagine a pitfall
can occur especially when you don't have
the explicit curation of a support group
yes that you can have a support group
that's an echo chamber you know you
might have a business support group and
no one in there is going to challenge
you on your like balance of the the the
time you're energy you're spending with
your family for example maybe that's
what's not happening in your support
group and so you have a support group
that is challenging you that is
reflecting and mirroring and you're
growing a lot but you're growing in a
narrow Direction yeah and you're there's
something that you're missing yeah and
so that might not mean that that entire
support group needs to change let's say
you have a a council of leaders yeah but
you might also have like you said a
men's group I have a men's group you
might have a couple's group you can have
more than one support group each of them
having a purpose that is important in
your life yeah it it interesting you say
that so last night I was hanging out
with a whole bunch of entrepreneurs and
they had just been accepted to this very
prestigious entrepreneur hacking house
thing and they got money and they were
all doing their thing and the whole
setup was creating quite a bit of
anxiety in all of them and it was making
them very inefficient which is often
something that you see in Venture
capitals like a lot of anxiety to make
the deadline and to rush and to get it
done quickly which can be productive and
can be very
counterproductive they were all there
supporting each other on many many
things supporting each other on the tech
supporting each other on leadership but
they were not supporting each other on
dealing with the
anxiety and it was amazing because as
soon as it got brought off you just saw
everybody and and and as soon as they
got that support it was like water on a
dry sponge they was like who this is
what I need to look up and believe this
false sense of urgency yeah and and so
it's it's a very interesting thing to
have different communities of support so
that you can get a a well-rounded
perspective in your own life it's not
just one thing so you mentioned how
important it is that the people in your
support group are peers yeah and
obviously that's not always the case
some people have more experience than
you in some aspects and others have less
and there's something important about
being able to receive teachings give
teachings share your experience see
someone go through what you're about to
go through shortly before you go through
it yeah and along the lines of find the
best person that you could skydive with
and skydive with them yeah building a
support group can become a form of
social climbing like I want to find
who's going to be the famous artists in
Florence in the enlightenment era and
become friends with them and that's a
strategy that works I've used it and
also there's a way that that can create
a sense of hierarchy and so I'm curious
how do you build a support system in
your world without making it into a some
sort of social climb or creating an
implicit hierarchy where I'm only going
to get support from people that I admire
in certain ways yeah and find myself in
in an imbalance we just realize how a
support system works and you won't do it
meaning um so if you look at little kids
hang out and one of them learn something
the first thing they're going to do is
teach some other kid that thing so and
by teaching them they integrate and they
learn it better
as a matter of fact everybody listening
to this podcast has learned something
and immediately wants to go teach
somebody the thing that they just
learned everybody has done it yeah so
great you have a support system where
you never get to teach anybody anything
how's that going to work for you right
that doesn't make any damn sense right
and so that's one perspective on it the
other perspective on it is that I did
this thing called l12 which
was about different um leaders getting
together so there was CEOs of very young
companies there was VPS of very big
companies there were CEOs of very big
companies all in this group of 12
people
and the young CEO had perspective that
the old CEO of the bigger company needed
the vice president of a massive Fortune
100 company had perspective that was
really useful for the young CEO the
common purpose is important but the span
of experience is what really is useful
yeah and the span of role in that case
too exactly yeah yeah yeah imagine that
in your in your like parenting and
couples group there's also a lot that
comes out about like being Sons and
Daughters of parents you know a lot of a
lot of your own parent stuff comes out
I'm sure correct and we also were oddly
very Diversified as well just as far
as um where we live what kind of
Lifestyle we're living what kind of
sexual lifestyle we're living and that
was luck that was conscious but it's
been so useful to see oh they they
raised their kid very different they had
one kid we had two kids they had four
kids you know they have an open
relationship we have a closed
relationship like what does that do this
allows you to see what's really
important right they've been around for
25 years with an open relationship holy
crap like that and they're and they're
happily married
yeah okay so what's really important it
just gives you that perspective yeah
questions all the assumptions you see
you see examples that are total counter
examples to your own hypothesis and
you're like okay there's definitely
something that I've been missing yeah in
my view exactly yeah yeah and it it
allows you to really focus on the the
key leverage points
of of what's working I remember this
moment um I was teaching one of my first
courses and and we were doing anger
release
and I was just having a hard time with
this very stuck angry like angry but
very stuck in their
anger and I was just failing and this
person who had just leared it from me
walked over and helped them get to their
anger in like 10 seconds I was like what
the like I just taught you and and and
you're teaching them better than I can
teach them and and it's something I
learned is oftentimes the best teacher
is a person who's just gone through it
mhm I had gone through something very
similar but it was whatever it was 10 15
years before that so I it wasn't fresh
in my system I hadn't just made the
mistake I hadn't just overcome something
and so that's also just a really really
useful thing about having
diversification and and not have it be a
hierarchy and that's the thing is if you
are social climbing you're really not
getting the support system that is most
useful for you
yeah yeah there's something resonant
with a concept of like a
multi-generational family living
together yeah where you have people who
have been there people who are going to
be there people who are in the midst of
it and on on different levels in
different ways yeah exactly and there's
also just a particular reward meaning I
think it was Eric Ericson he was a
learned from
Freud and he talks about how when
somebody hits about 50 or 60 one of the
things that they do for fulfillment is
to give
back and so there's something very very
useful it's like your legacy or it's
your that mentorship is an incredibly
useful thing for your own sense of
fulfillment and you're not going to get
it if there's nobody in the group yeah
that allows that so I want to get a
little bit concrete on how how somebody
who's listening right now can build
their support system and one one
critical piece is how how do you
approach somebody how do you take
something that is implicit in your world
like I have this support from these
people and I've noticed that I'm missing
this what maybe this person in my life
might enter this support system what are
what are some ways that you might
approach such a person or structure that
support in a way that is not creating a
hierarchy or a sense of obligation yeah
but is an invitation yeah I mean there's
the direct way and there's the indirect
way like right now my
my support system in being a just being
a man is hiking with this group of guys
every Friday or so we do this night hike
and that one
is do we like you do you have the right
Consciousness like it and then the
implied thing is that we're going
to laugh and and and express our truth
on the on this hike like it's going to
be ridiculous and fun and and that all
that requires is hey you want to hike
with us and then if it's somebody that
ends up fitting and
great but if it's something like a
business if it's something like creating
your own personal board of directors if
it's something that is uh a Community
Practice a sonha if you will then I
think it's really important to be
explicit directly with what you
want I want a group of people who can
support each other like this I want a
group of people who can be there for
each other and challenge each other but
do it with an open heart I want people
who know how to get back to
unconditional
love and and they know that that's their
responsibility they're not holding each
other responsible for their capacity to
be in unconditional love I want people
who who know that leadership is a way
that they can work on themselves that
leadership is something that is a gift
to the world and a gift to yourself and
it doesn't require you to burn out so
some some sort of vision of what it is
that you want I think is really critical
to be very explicit about it's going to
feel
awkward that's because you're not
completely okay with it yet right so the
more you're okay with it the easier it
is to say it the easier it is to say it
the more likely you're going to find the
people who want you to who want to join
you in that and so I think that's a
really important thing and then the next
important thing is to have a really
clear set of rules or boundaries or ways
of engaging so that everybody can teach
everybody can learn everybody can feel
supported it doesn't feel like
resentment is building there's givers
and takers you that whole thing that
it's a very
flat experience instead of a
hierarchical experience all those things
are critical and just having the
agreements of how you interact with each
other yeah something that's really
interesting you there's a little snippet
you said like you might not be okay with
it yet so I'm curious
how like what is what is the scary thing
what are the things that get in the way
of us allowing a support system to be
there for us or seeing what's available
to us yeah and and how can we bring
those to the surface and work through
those so that we can actually welcome a
support system before we even and create
it one of the scariest things is you're
going to be
seen if you're really going to get
support system you're going to be seen
and we might want that on one level but
it scares us on another level because
the way we judge oursel is going to be
seen the way that we criticize ourselves
is going to be seen
so the way that we we have shortcomings
it's all going to be seen so that's one
of the things that can be really scary
about it the other thing that can be
scary about it is the identity
dissolves in groups in a way that you
might identify as a person who wants to
become a great artist but it's very hard
to shift that identity to the one who is
the great
artist it's might be very easy to have
the identity of I don't really care that
much and be scary to get to the identity
of no I really I really care I want to
be one of the
best whatever recording artists in the
world so that change of perspective and
and the way that people challenge you to
change that perspective in a support
group can be incredibly scary yeah and
then the accountability can also be
scary right because I'm the person who
wants to be this but I'm actually the
person who criticizes myself for not
getting there now I'm in a support group
and it's everyone's like hey no we get
there this is what we do we don't we
don't make excuses or whatever that is
and so that it can all of that can be
incredibly challenging yeah another one
that occurs to me now is the the
challenge of letting go of hierarchy
like if we're used to putting somebody
on a pedestal or putting somebody else
below us and it's going to be really
hard for us to really create a support
structure yeah because those
relationships are going to be some form
of transactional or some form of
one-sided or a particular shape that
won't really allow for the full breadth
of a a peer support
relationship yeah also power struggles
will ensue and a whole bunch of other
things which is why the Agreements are
so important so if you don't have a
series of principles or agreements of
this is how we interact in the support
group what happens is that somebody will
feel uncomfortable because there who the
[__] in charge
and then somebody will try to be in
charge and that won't work so if you
have these are our agreements and then
you don't have to worry about who's in
charge anymore and so yeah there's a
that there's that part of it also that's
really critical in my mind anyways the
last thing to say about it is that I
guarantee you I wouldn't be where I am
in my life without my support systems
right so I you might be dead
without yours yeah yeah definitely right
um I know that like it was the men's
group and the tussle that happened in
the men's group and it was it's that
coup's group that I'm still a part of
and it's the community of
practice that allowed me to have the
life that I had that allowed this like
level of happiness that I get to exist
in and then there's something
about that which like there's a humility
and a gratitude which is nice but what's
even nicer about it is to realize that
like it's not [__] about you you know
like you're part of something that's
greater and it's a gift and it's a
blessing and
and rather than I have done this thing
right so it's kind of an
interesting juxtaposition of I'm going
to create my support
group only for my support group to
create me and that second part there's a
relief because what I noticed most
people are doing in the world and what I
used to do is like what do I have to do
to fix it what do I have
to how am I what do I by i i i i i and
then when there's this support group and
you look up and you're still thinking I
I I I but you're looking around and you
go yeah except it never would have
happened without them and there's some
sort of ease and oh it's like it's not
all dependent on me that there's a gift
to
this to me that's the biggest blessing
yeah in the way that we are a product of
our environment you know it's it's been
said that you become the some something
like the average of the five people
you're closest to yeah and there's
something self-compassionate in that
recognition where whatever it is that I
could have an ego about about myself is
actually a product of my environment as
much as it is a product of any intention
myself and so when I'm deciding where I
want to go in life when I'm
considering who I'm who I want to be or
what qualities I want to explore in
myself
I can try to create those qualities
fromin me and fight the world until I'm
like sharpened that skill or I can just
create the environment that will
naturally bring that aspect further into
the light for me so I have this great
experiment that I run with people
that exactly touches on this so I'll do
it with the whole audience right now so
close your eyes for a minute and
imagine you're on an island and you're
stuck on that island you got all the
food everything you need to be
comfortable but you don't get to leave
that
island and on this island are 12
Saints and these 12 Saints they're fully
human but they all just know how to
unconditionally love you and
Unconditionally Love themselves they
have boundaries they they say what they
want Etc but there's just that
unconditional
love 10 years later who are you after
living
there right as soon as you see that
you're like oh I would I would be like
that I would be like them and that it
tells you how important it is this
community of practice yeah I thought you
were going to run me through the Lord of
the
Flies miss the
opportunity awesome BR thank you thanks
for a great podcast yeah thanks Joe yeah
thanks everybody